.TH "TCATEST" 3 "2008-01-17" "Man Page" "Tokyo Cabinet"

.SH NAME
tcamgr \- the command line utility of the abstract database API

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The command `\fBtcamgr\fR' is a utility for test and debugging of the abstract database API and its applications.  `\fIname\fR' specifies the name of a database.  `\fIkey\fR' specifies the key of a record.  `\fIvalue\fR' specifies the value of a record.
.PP
.RS
.br
\fBtcamgr create \fIname\fB\fR
.RS
Create a database file.
.RE
.br
\fBtcamgr inform \fIname\fB\fR
.RS
Print miscellaneous information to the standard output.
.RE
.br
\fBtcamgr put \fR[\fB\-sx\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-dk\fR|\fB\-dc\fR]\fB \fIname\fB \fIkey\fB \fIvalue\fB\fR
.RS
Store a record.
.RE
.br
\fBtcamgr out \fR[\fB\-sx\fR]\fB \fIname\fB \fIkey\fB\fR
.RS
Remove a record.
.RE
.br
\fBtcamgr get \fR[\fB\-sx\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-px\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-pz\fR]\fB \fIname\fB \fIkey\fB\fR
.RS
Print the value of a record.
.RE
.br
\fBtcamgr list \fR[\fB\-m \fInum\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-pv\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-px\fR]\fB \fIname\fB\fR
.RS
Print keys of all records, separated by line feeds.
.RE
.br
\fBtcamgr version\fR
.RS
Print the version information of Tokyo Cabinet.
.RE
.RE
.PP
Options feature the following.
.PP
.RS
\fB\-sx\fR : input data is evaluated as a hexadecimal data string.
.br
\fB\-dk\fR : use the function `tchdbputkeep' instead of `tchdbput'.
.br
\fB\-dc\fR : use the function `tchdbputcat' instead of `tchdbput'.
.br
\fB\-px\fR : output data is converted into a hexadecimal data string.
.br
\fB\-pz\fR : do not append line feed at the end of the output.
.br
\fB\-m\fR \fInum\fR : specify the maximum number of the output.
.br
\fB\-pv\fR : print values of record also.
.br
.RE
.PP
This command returns 0 on success, another on failure.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR tcatest (1),
.BR tcadb (3),
.BR tokyocabinet (3)
