.TH "TCUCODEC" 1 "2007-10-24" "Man Page" "Tokyo Cabinet"

.SH NAME
tcucodec \- popular encoders and decoders of Tokyo Cabinet

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The command `\fBtcucodec\fR' is a tool to use encoding and decoding features.  This command is used in the following format.  `\fIfile\fR' specifies a input file.  If it is omitted, the standard input is read.
.PP
.RS
.br
\fBtcucodec url \fR[\fB\-d\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-br\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-rs \fIbase\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\fIfile\fB\fR]\fB\fR
.RS
Perform URL encoding and its decoding.
.RE
.br
\fBtcucodec base \fR[\fB\-d\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\fIfile\fB\fR]\fB\fR
.RS
Perform Base64 encoding and its decoding.
.RE
.br
\fBtcucodec quote \fR[\fB\-d\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\fIfile\fB\fR]\fB\fR
.RS
Perform quoted\-printable encoding and its decoding.
.RE
.br
\fBtcucodec mime \fR[\fB\-d\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-en \fIname\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-q\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\fIfile\fB\fR]\fB\fR
.RS
Perform MIME encoding and its decoding.
.RE
.br
\fBtcucodec pack \fR[\fB\-d\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-bwt\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\fIfile\fB\fR]\fB\fR
.RS
Perform Packbits encoding and its decoding.
.RE
.br
\fBtcucodec tcbs \fR[\fB\-d\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\fIfile\fB\fR]\fB\fR
.RS
Perform TCBS encoding and its decoding.
.RE
.br
\fBtcucodec zlib \fR[\fB\-d\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-gz\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\fIfile\fB\fR]\fB\fR
.RS
Perform ZLIB encoding and its decoding.
.RE
.br
\fBtcucodec xml \fR[\fB\-d\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-br\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\fIfile\fB\fR]\fB\fR
.RS
Process XML.  By default, escape meta characters.
.RE
.br
\fBtcucodec conf \fR[\fB\-v\fR|\fB\-i\fR|\fB\-l\fR|\fB\-p\fR]\fB\fR
.RS
Print some configurations.
.RE
.RE
.PP
Options feature the following.
.PP
.RS
\fB\-d\fR : perform decoding (unescaping), not encoding (escaping).
.br
\fB\-br\fR : break up URL or XML into elements.
.br
\-rs \fIbase\fR : specify the base URL and resolve the relative URL.
.br
\-en \fIname\fR : specify the input encoding, which is UTF\-8 by default.
.br
\fB\-q\fR : use quoted\-printable encoding, which is Base64 by default.
.br
\fB\-bwt\fR : convert by BWT as preprocessing.
.br
\fB\-gz\fR : use GZIP format.
.br
\fB\-v\fR : show the version number of Tokyo Cabinet.
.br
\fB\-i\fR : show options to include the headers of Tokyo Cabinet.
.br
\fB\-l\fR : show options to link the library of Tokyo Cabinet.
.br
\fB\-p\fR : show the directory path of the commands of Tokyo Cabinet.
.br
.RE
.PP
This command returns 0 on success, another on failure.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR tcutest (1),
.BR tcutil (3),
.BR tokyocabinet (3)
